# Tast Design Principles (go/tast-design)

This document lists principles that guided [Tast's design] and that should be
kept in mind when considering future changes.

[TOC]

## Running tests should be fast.

Iteratively running tests (regardless of whether one is adding or modifying
tests, trying to reproduce a failure, or verifying that a system change has
fixed a failing test) should be fast from the perspective of a developer waiting
for the command to complete.

*   Operations should not take additional time to complete due to the choice of
    programming language.
*   Building and deploying tests and associated data must be fast. `emerge` adds
    ten seconds or more of overhead even when building a C++ program with no
    dependencies and an empty `main()` function and shouldn't be part of the
    build/deploy/run cycle in its present form.
*   The test system's overhead should be minimized. Nothing should be copied to
    the DUT when the test hasn't changed. All communication with the DUT should
    happen over a single persistent SSH connection, and round trips should be
    minimized on the critical path — otherwise, network latency kills
    performance when running tests on a DUT in a different geographical
    location.
*   Developers shouldn't need to edit tests on-device in order to iterate
    quickly. Chrome OS systems do not make for pleasant development
    environments. (They may support pleasant development environments within
    VMs, but that doesn't help for testing.)
*   Running a test shouldn't result in code being compiled. If a test needs
    additional executables to be installed on the DUT, then those executables
    should already be present in the system image. We already have a packaging
    system; use it.
*   Information about a test (e.g. its inclusion in a suite) should be available
    without needing to evaluate hundreds of scripts. Don't emulate a declarative
    language using an imperative interpreted language.

## Tests should yield consistent results.

*   Minimize the number of moving pieces when a test is run on a DUT. The
    framework, and tests themselves, should do everything in their power to
    avoid operations that might fail. Avoid runtime dependencies on external
    resources like databases, websites, and other network services.

## Adding or modifying a test should be easy.

*   Minimize boilerplate. For example, test names shouldn't appear repeatedly in
    the source (e.g. directory names, control files, filenames, test
    implementations, `.ebuild` files). We'd frown if we saw the same lengthy
    string constant repeated five or more times in a C++ program. In cases where
    repetition is unavoidable, there should be automatic checks that the names
    are consistent in all locations.
*   Developers shouldn't need to know the specifics of how the test system is
    integrated into Chrome OS. In the common case, they shouldn't need to edit
    `.ebuild` files when adding a test, run `cros_workon` when making changes,
    or set USE flags or build and deploy packages to run tests.

## Test results should be easy to interpret.

*   A given run's output directory should be structured in a way that is easy to
    navigate.
*   Logs must be easy to read. The default log level should include messages
    that describe what's happening at any given time (e.g. no radio silence
    while the test is running on a remote host: see [issue 715865]), but no
    non-fatal warnings and errors. A separate log file should be written with
    full verbose output, and it should be trivial for both machines and humans
    to find the overall pass/fail status of all tests and the verbose output
    from an individual test.
*   Errors should be passed back to the top level of the test and logged there.
    When fatal errors are reported from deep in support libraries, test results
    are often difficult to interpret due to the lack of context present in the
    errors.
*   Detailed timing information should be written in a format readable by both
    humans and machines to make it easy to see why a test run was slow and track
    long-term performance trends.
*   System log information generated by the DUT while tests were running should
    be captured. It should be easy to compare timestamps in test results to
    timestamps from the DUT's system logs, even in the presence of clock skew.

## The test framework, and tests themselves, should be maintainable.

*   The framework should focus on running tests. Tasks like allocating DUTs and
    scheduling tests on them, reimaging or repairing DUTs, and displaying and
    archiving test results belong elsewhere.
*   There should be a clear separation between code that's used by tests and
    code that runs on developers' workstations or bots to deploy and run tests.
*   Avoid magic. Code that spells out what it's doing is easier to debug than
    code that relies on action at a distance (e.g. overriding `__getattr__` or
    using `setattr` to dynamically set attributes in Python). Make code easy to
    trace unless there's an extremely compelling reason to do something fancy.
*   Avoid making test libraries ornate. Nobody wants to puzzle their way through
    complicated object hierarchies while trying to debug a failing test.
*   The code that supports tests must itself be thoroughly covered by unit
    tests.
*   Make it easy to disable a broken test until it can be fixed by its owners.

## The test system should have opinions about the right way to write tests.

Don't overwhelm developers with choices.

*   Keep logging simple. There should be one way to report test failures and one
    way to log informative messages. Don't permit non-fatal "warning"-level
    errors, as nobody does anything about them and they end up permanently
    cluttering logs.
*   Tests should be straightforward to read. Instead of distributing work across
    superclasses and overridden methods with non-obvious semantics (e.g.
    `initialize()`, `setup()`, `warmup()`, `run_once()`, `postprocess()`),
    implement each test in a single function, with initialization appearing at
    the beginning and teardown happening at exit (per language affordances).

[Tast's design]: overview.md
[issue 715865]: http://crbug.com/715865
